---
student_name: Tasha Joan Paul
project_title: THE MEANING OF WU
context: Autonomous Context
year: 2022-2023
main_image: 'https://ucarecdn.com/948bf391-f0b8-4175-acaa-682a7a32c00e/'
social_links:
  - 'https://tasha-research.com'
  - 'https://www.instagram.com/https://www.instagram.com/acid_candycandy'
---
Wu = no, not, nought, nonbeing, emptiness, nothingness, nothing, no thing
武 Wǔ = war, warrior, warlike
烏／乌 Wū or Wù = crow, raven, black
巫 Wū or Wú = shaman, sorceror, witch


“Torture and Remedy: The End of -isms and the Beginning Hegemony of the Impure”
By Jörg Heiser, e-flux, 2009

"There is a sharp contrast between, on the one hand, the often blunt commodification of art
(and the processes of branding and generating wealth connected with it), and, on the other, the extremely heterogeneous, fragile practice of creating art. In fact, a good part of what makes an artist succumb to blunt commodification is the sheer anxiety caused by that heterogeneous fragility. Producing easily marketable, no- questions-asked work can offer a (deceptive) security no longer provided by classical avant-garde panache. There is no clearly
distinguishable movement in sight that would lead out of this apparent deadlock. Given this,
what are the options, the cracks of light in the otherwise uniformly dark, dystopian vision of
poor, anxious artists doing irrelevant work for the rich? The answer to this question, as I will argue, is that today there is a kind of movement whose point is not to be clearly distinguishable, not to be “pure” anymore, not to allow itself to be historicized that way. (…)
But before making that argument, it’s necessary to understand what the last clearly distinguishable movements were, and why there now are none. The last period in visual arts that produced such movements was the 1960s: Pop Art, Minimal Art, and Conceptual Art. These movements were “distinguishable” because they were defined by a small set of methodological operations that could be identified as innovative in comparison to other achievements in art, whether earlier or contemporaneous. In other words, they were avant-gardes. Still, defining the “essence” and “newness” of these movements, or deciding whose work belongs clearly enough to any of them, has remained an often ideologically charged issue for many artists, critics, and scholars alike. And many of them have abandoned the very idea of a “movement.” Usually they have done so in the name of either idiosyncrasy or the genius of the individual artist. Or they have done so, on the contrary, in the name of a more totalized idea of creative collectivity that supposedly “transcends” the limits of an “-ism” or mere “style”. But whether or not you’re against the idea of movements no longer seems to be the problem. From the 1970s on, it has been difficult or next to impossible to clearly identify them in the first place. Everything became “neo-this” or “post-that,” or a pronounced crossbreed between previous movements.  (...) In any case, rather than evoking the sense (or illusion?) of something radically new, these post- and neo- or cross-breed-movements, for better or worse, all seemed to be about re-investigating the heritage of previous movements (if seen generously), or about devouring their corpses (if seen nihilistically). Classical avant-gardes were about generations in quarrel: Pop art, Minimal, and Conceptual art were not least rejections of the earlier Abstract Expressionism. But today, the idea of generations succeeding each other becomes blurred; as soon as you are willing to enter the circulation, it is possible to re-launch. Avant-gardes, in an odd way, were dependent on information, but also on a lack of information: a kind of productive ignorance of the contradiction of their rejections of previous generations, for example. This has become harder and harder: the more these contradictions have been discussed, the more it has become impossible to make the same “productive” mistakes again. So are we dealing here with a kind of “saturation” of the idea that art could progress? A kind of historic accumulation of already-achieved expansions and reinventions of what art could be, leaving us feeling stranded amidst the flotsam of these previous achievements piling up in the museums, the libraries, and on the Internet? Evidence that this might be the case comes courtesy of the observation that this experience is not exclusive to art. In pop music, the last “explosions” of new styles were punk in the 1970s and hip-hop and techno in the 1980s;
since then, a myriad of styles have been circulating, but none has had a comparable impact. In philosophy, the age of schools seems to be over, too; since the death of Jacques Derrida in 2004, all of the influential movements seem actually to be hybrids of earlier movements, even if they ironically argue for purity and against hybridity, and so on. But is this really a problem? It is insofar as we demand that art (or philosophy, or pop music) completely re-invent itself once more. The thing is that this re-invention has become seemingly impossible because all these previous re- inventions were built on the possibility of expansion, and once the globe has been saturated with expansion, the only way forward seems to be to shrink backwards.(…) As Boris Groys has argued, “newness” is the negotiation of the division between what is considered profane and what is considered valuable. A similar thing can be said about art movements: at face value, they might just be about a stylistic innovation; but in fact they can foster real structural innovation, sometimes  almost as a collateral effect.
Innovative concepts today are still met with rejection and ignorance, or a mixture of both. But usually the information is too readily available and there are too many players for things not to find an audience; the most outrageous or unthinkable things will be accepted even if only by a relatively small group, and in this sense, rage and rejection have been replaced by a kind of generalized indifference.  But should that indifference be held against art? Should art try to violently break through indifference by again provoking rage and rejection?(…) I don’t think so. The value of art is not defined by immediate reaction, its true achievement may only be realized much later, in hindsight. So the tell-tale signs of a "new" idea that it is met with rejection, ignorance, or both  don’t really work in a global environment of mass-media saturation. Boris Groys was right in arguing that acceptance of innovation depends
on cultural archiving: one can only distinguish and appreciate the new in relation to the old.
But what if that archive becomes so vast that it can’t be held in check, if it extends beyond any single human being’s capacity? Art has grown exponentially both through time and around the globe. Artistic innovation, it seems, can only be taken forward if it’s not so much about finding that one tiny thing that hasn’t entered the archive of cultural knowledge yet, 
but about finding an innovative way of making use of that archive, or of settling into its cracks and uncharted assets. Innovation for a long time probably relied as much on information as it did on ignorance, or rather the luck of overlooking the right things. It’s become rather hard not to be relatively well-informed in a field when, via the Internet and growing archives, almost everything is available at hand.(…) Just as much as it blurs the line
between the “now” of novelty and newness and the infinite depth of history and archive, it also blurs the line between fake heterogeneity and true heterogeneity. It has made it possible to produce atomized mutant hybrids between the two: people who are great enough fans will be able to find film footage and sound recordings and images and scholarly discussion of virtually anything on the Internet. (…) Does that mean all will be ruled by indifference, “anything goes, you can present any absurd, multiple combination of things as art?” No; it just raises the bar. Amidst the sea of possibilities, in order not to drown, you have to make yourself a raft of whatever you find. It’s not the cleanest raft that counts, but the one that takes you the furthest."